CompTIA A+ 1


Trouble shooting laptop can be challenging

Some laptop are easiser to fix than others

The details will be vary betweem laptop manufactures



Battery inside the laptop may be easily to replaced, others require to teardown.

Many battery laptop today are Lithium-Ion (Li-ion) and Lithium-Ion polymer (Lipo).
No "memory effect"(limiting the amount of the capacity that battery might have).
Charging the battery diminishes capacity just a bit.

Each battery is different for each laptop.



Keyboard is the most used component on the laptop.
Easy to replace, usually fe screws and a single ribbon cables.
May not always this simple.

You can also connect with external USB keyboards.

To access function keyboard (secondary function in f1, f2, f3, etc. key) is to hold down function key (fn) and press the function you want to use (f1, f2, or others).


Some repair migth need to remove the keycap of the keyboard.

This part is very fragile. Check with the manufacturer's instructions. And follow that instructions.



All the program inside the laptop is executed inside the memory (RAM(Random Acces Memory)). If you want to improve the RAM of the laptop, better use SO-DIMM (Small Outline Dual In-line Memory Module ). This type of RAM is easy to install or replace.

Some laptop RAM is soldered to the system board. This type of RAM is really hard to replace and sometimes requires a full system board replacement.



Laptop also need some storage space so we can retrieve or save files in the laptop. 

Older laptop usually use magnetic disk (HDD (Hard Disk Drive). For laptop is in 2.5 inch form factors, in desktops is 3.5.

Newer laptop will use SSD (Solid-state drive). There is no moving part inside of it. It's fast, silent, and less latency.
There are two form factor of SSD, 2.5" and M.2. M.2 is smaller, no SATA (Serial Advanced Technology Attachment) data or power cable rewquired, and it's easy to install.

To replace the storage of a laptop, usually there is two type, one with just open a cover on the back, the other one is to open the entire of the laptop.
